BUILD.md, before:

# Build instructions

## Two ways to build

This project can be built either with CMake, or with CMake executed by Bazel.

### CMake build

   cmake \
        -DQpid_DIR=...
        -DProton_DIR=...
        -DProtonCpp_DIR=...
        -DENABLE_QPID_MESSAGING=OFF
        -DENABLE_QPID_PROTON=ON
        -DCMAKE_USER_C_FLAGS='-std=c++11'

### Bazel command line

Bazel is used to also build the dependencies, qpid-cpp and qpid-proton.

    bazelisk build //:cli-cpp --//:deps=upstream

You can tell Bazel not to build these dependencies, and they will be then picked by CMake from system location.

    bazelisk build //:cli-cpp --//:deps=rpms

When building with ccache, add the following

    --sandbox_writable_path=$HOME/.ccache

### CMake build

If you want to use the dependencies built by Bazel in your CMake build, do this.

    mkdir ext_build_deps
    ln -s `pwd`/bazel-bin/copy_*/*/lib64/cmake/*/*.cmake ext_build_deps/
    ln -s `pwd`/bazel-bin/copy_*/* ext_build_deps/
    cmake -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=`pwd`/cmake_module_path -DEXT_BUILD_DEPS=`pwd`/cmake_module_path

### Flags for libraries

See `BUILD.bazel` for qpid-cpp and qpid-proton flags.
The idea is to build as little as possible.

## Design considerations

It makes sense to build cli-cpp with libs from RPM, libs from upstream, or local checkout.

Further, it makes sense to mix and match tools such as ninja, make, ccache.

Next, the Debug/Release build should be selected as needed.

Bazel can provide caching of build actions, and it can be used both in CI or locally.

Commit message:

Fix failing GitHub Actions Bazel CI (#61)
The problem is in Qpid Cpp which uses absolute paths in QpidConfig.cmake. My build moves the built artifacts around, and that breaks things.

Workaround is to disable Bazel sandbox in targets that use qpid-cpp.

BUILD.md, after:

# Build instructions

## Requirements

This project depends on Qpid Cpp and Qpid Proton messaging libraries.
These have their own dependencies in turn.
Here is (possibly incomplete) list for Fedora/RHEL to install.
(In other words, the build is not hermetic/self-contained, not even with Bazel.)

Cli Cpp

* boost_regex

Proton Cpp

Qpid Cpp

* nss-devel
* python2
  * `python2 -m ensurepip --user --upgrade` to get setuptools for it

## Two ways to build

This project can be built either with CMake, or with CMake executed by Bazel.

### CMake build

   cmake \
        -DQpid_DIR=...
        -DProton_DIR=...
        -DProtonCpp_DIR=...
        -DENABLE_QPID_MESSAGING=OFF
        -DENABLE_QPID_PROTON=ON
        -DCMAKE_USER_C_FLAGS='-std=c++11'

### Bazel command line

Bazel is used to also build the dependencies, qpid-cpp and qpid-proton.

    bazelisk build //:cli-cpp --//:deps=upstream

You can tell Bazel not to build these dependencies, and they will be then picked by CMake from system location.

    bazelisk build //:cli-cpp --//:deps=rpms

When building with ccache, add the following

    --sandbox_writable_path=$HOME/.ccache

#### Troubleshooting

Preserve sandbox with `--sandbox_debug` flag.
Get more output with `--verbose_failures` flag.

Disable sandbox with `--spawn_strategy=standalone` flag, use values of `processwrapper-sandbox`, `linux-sandbox`, ...

### CMake build

If you want to use the dependencies built by Bazel in your CMake build, do this.

    mkdir ext_build_deps
    ln -s `pwd`/bazel-bin/copy_*/*/lib64/cmake/*/*.cmake ext_build_deps/
    ln -s `pwd`/bazel-bin/copy_*/* ext_build_deps/
    cmake -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=`pwd`/cmake_module_path -DEXT_BUILD_DEPS=`pwd`/cmake_module_path

### Flags for libraries

See `BUILD.bazel` for qpid-cpp and qpid-proton flags.
The idea is to build as little as possible.

## Design considerations

It makes sense to build cli-cpp with libs from RPM, libs from upstream, or local checkout.

Further, it makes sense to mix and match tools such as ninja, make, ccache.

Next, the Debug/Release build should be selected as needed.

Bazel can provide caching of build actions, and it can be used both in CI or locally.
